[Music]
mistress of vernacular fizzle to end
weekly or to fail to die out the
definition of fizzle likely links back
to the old English word fist which meant
stink in the mid 15th century fist
developed into the verb
Fister to break wind which eventually
led to the modern word feisty but that's
another story in its earliest form as a
variant of phiston fizzle had a very
specific meaning to break wind without
noise surprisingly considering this
initial definition by the 1800s the word
fizzle referred instead to a specific
sound rather graphically to the
sputtering or hissing of a gas or liquid
being forced out of an narrow opening
the figurative sense of the word
a week ending is thus understandable
within the context of a flame consuming
the last drops of oil in a lantern or a
valve drawing out the contents at the
bottom of a cask though perhaps not
derived directly from this subsiding
verb our modern meaning of fizzle
developed as slang in the 1800s
originally used on college campuses to
describe failure specifically on an exam
it wasn't long before the word came to
mean exactly what it does today and was
quickly and widely adopted
[Music]